{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset134 STSongti-SC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh15440\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 CREATE TABLE customers (\
customer_id INT PRIMARY KEY,\
name VARCHAR(50),\
city VARCHAR(50)\
);\
\
CREATE TABLE orders (\
    order_id INT PRIMARY KEY,\
    customer_id INT,\
    order_date DATE,\
    total_amount INT,\
    FOREIGN KEY (customer_id) REFERENCES customers(customer_id)\
);\
\
CREATE TABLE products (\
product_id VARCHAR(10) PRIMARY KEY,\
name VARCHAR(50),\
category VARCHAR(50),\
price INT\
);\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 INSERT INTO customers VALUES\
(1, 'Rajesh', 'Chennai'),\
(2, 'Priya', 'Mumbai'),\
(3, 'Arjun', 'Delhi'),\
(4, 'Sneha', 'Chennai');\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
INSERT INTO orders VALUES\
(101, 1, '2025-01-10', 2500),\
(102, 2, '2025-01-12', 4000),\
(103, 3, '2025-01-15', 1500),\
(104, 1, '2025-02-05', 3200),\
(105, 4, '2025-02-20', 1800),\
(106, 2, '2025-03-01', 220;\
\
INSERT INTO products VALUES\
('P01', 'Laptop', 'Electronics', 70000),\
('P02', 'Phone', 'Electronics', 30000);\
\
Q3. Update a customer\'92s city to \'93Hyderabad\'94. \
UPDATE customers\
SET city = 'Hyderabad'\
WHERE customer_id = 3;\
\
Q4. Delete orders where total_amount < 2000. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DELETE FROM orders\
WHERE total_amount < 2000;\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q5. Display all customer names and cities. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SELECT name, city FROM customers;\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q6. Show all orders placed in February 2025. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SELECT *\
FROM orders\
WHERE order_date BETWEEN '2025-02-01' AND '2025-02-28';\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q7. Find all customers from Chennai\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SELECT *\
FROM customers\
WHERE city = 'Chennai';\
\
Q8. Retrieve all orders where total_amount is between 2000 and 4000. \
SELECT *\
FROM orders\
WHERE total_amount BETWEEN 2000 AND 4000;\
\
Q9. Display all customers whose names start with \'93P\'94. \
SELECT *\
FROM customers\
WHERE name LIKE 'P%';\
\
Q10. Find customers who live in Mumbai or Delhi. \
SELECT *\
FROM customers\
WHERE city IN ('Mumbai','Delhi');\
\
Q11. Show orders sorted by order_date (most recent first). \
SELECT *\
FROM orders\
ORDER BY order_date DESC;\
\
Q12. Display customers sorted alphabetically by name.\
SELECT *\
FROM customers\
ORDER BY name ASC;\
\
Q13. Find total sales per customer. \
SELECT customer_id, SUM(total_amount) AS total_sales\
FROM orders\
GROUP BY customer_id;\
\
Q14. Find total sales per city. \
SELECT c.city, SUM(o.total_amount) AS total_sales\
FROM customers c\
JOIN orders o ON c.customer_id = o.customer_id\
GROUP BY c.city;\
\
Q15. Find average, minimum, and maximum order amount across all orders. \
SELECT \
AVG(total_amount),\
MIN(total_amount),\
MAX(total_amount)\
FROM orders;\
\
Q16. Find customers whose total purchase value is greater than 
\f1 \uc0\u8377 
\f0 3000. \
SELECT customer_id, SUM(total_amount) AS total\
FROM orders\
GROUP BY customer_id\
HAVING SUM(total_amount) > 3000;\
\
Q17. Find cities with total sales greater than 
\f1 \uc0\u8377 
\f0 5000. \
SELECT c.city, SUM(o.total_amount) AS total\
FROM customers c\
JOIN orders o ON c.customer_id = o.customer_id\
GROUP BY c.city\
HAVING SUM(o.total_amount) > 5000;\
\
Q18. Display each order along with the customer name and city. \
SELECT o.order_id, c.name, c.city\
FROM orders o\
JOIN customers c ON o.customer_id = c.customer_id;\
\
Q19. Find customers who have not placed any orders. \
SELECT c.*\
FROM customers c\
LEFT JOIN orders o ON c.customer_id = o.customer_id\
WHERE o.order_id IS NULL;\
\
Q20. Join orders and products to display order_id, product name, price (assume order_products table links them). \
SELECT o.order_id, p.name, p.price\
FROM orders o\
JOIN order_products op ON o.order_id = op.order_id\
JOIN products p ON op.product_id = p.product_id;\
\
Q21. Show each city\'92s total revenue and number of unique customers. \
SELECT c.city,\
SUM(o.total_amount) AS total_revenue,\
COUNT(DISTINCT c.customer_id) AS unique_customers\
FROM customers c\
JOIN orders o ON c.customer_id = o.customer_id\
GROUP BY c.city;\
\
Q22. Find the top 3 customers by total order value. \
SELECT c.name, SUM(o.total_amount) AS total\
FROM customers c\
JOIN orders o ON c.customer_id = o.customer_id\
GROUP BY c.name\
ORDER BY total DESC\
LIMIT 3;\
\
Q23. Rank customers by total purchase amount. \
SELECT c.name,\
SUM(o.total_amount) AS total,\
RANK() OVER (ORDER BY SUM(o.total_amount) DESC) AS rank\
FROM customers c\
JOIN orders o ON c.customer_id = o.customer_id\
GROUP BY c.name;\
\
Q24. Calculate a running total of sales ordered by date. \
SELECT order_date,\
SUM(total_amount) OVER (ORDER BY order_date) AS running_total\
FROM orders;\
Q25. Find the monthly average order amount and show each order\'92s deviation from that average.\
SELECT \
DATE_TRUNC('month', order_date) AS month,\
SUM(total_amount) AS monthly_sales\
FROM orders\
GROUP BY month\
ORDER BY month;\
}